# Voice-Assistant-using-Python
A virtual assistant is an independent contractor who provides administrative services to clients while operating outside of the client's office. A virtual assistant typically operates from a home office but can access the necessary planning documents, such as shared calendars, remotely. People employed as virtual assistants often have several years of experience as an administrative assistant or office manager. New opportunities are opening up for virtual assistants who are skilled in social media, content management, blog post writing, graphic design, and Internet marketing. As working from home has become more accepted for both workers and employers, the demand for skilled virtual assistants is expected to grow. In today’s era almost all tasks are digitalized. We have Smartphone in hands and it is nothing less than having world at your fingertips. These days we aren’t even using fingers. We just speak of the task and it is done. There exist systems where we can say Text Friend, “I will Call you Letter.” And the text is sent or any one may make call by saying “Call To Mr. Roy” That is the task of a Virtual Assistant. It also supports specialized task such as booking a flight, or finding cheapest book online from various e-commerce sites and then providing an interface to book an order are helping automate search, discovery and online order operations. An intelligent virtual assistant (IVA) or intelligent personal assistant (IPA) is a software agent that can perform tasks or services for an individual based on commands or questions. The term "chatbot" is sometimes used to refer to virtual assistants generally or specifically accessed by online chat. In some cases, online chat programs are exclusively for entertainment purposes. Some virtual assistants are able to interpret human speech and respond via synthesized voices. Users can ask their assistants questions, control home automation devices and media playback via voice, and manage other basic tasks such as email, to-do lists, and calendars with verbal (spoken?) commands. A similar concept, however with differences, lays under the dialogue systems. The project aims to develop a personal-assistant for Linux-based / Windows systems using Python, Jupitar Notebook, PyCharm. Voice Assistant using Python draws its inspiration from virtual assistants like Cortana for Windows, and Siri for iOS. It has been designed to provide a user-friendly interface for carrying out a variety of tasks by employing certain well-defined commands. Users can interact with the assistant either through voice commands or using sound or Voice input input. As a personal assistant, this system assists the end-user with day-to-day activities like general human conversation, searching queries in google, Bing or yahoo, searching for videos, retrieving images, live weather conditions, word meanings, searching for medicine details, health recommendations based on symptoms and reminding the user about the scheduled events and tasks. The user statements/commands are analyzed with the help of machine learning to give an optimal solution.
